Bear and Mouse lived side by side. Bear kept his den just the way he liked it. It was cool in summer, cozy in fall, warm in winter, dry in spring, and tidy all year round. Mouse kept her den just the way she liked it. She filled it with fruit in summer, gourds in fall, pine boughs in winter, flowers in spring, and trinkets all year round. “Your home is very plain,” Mouse told Bear. “Yes, it is,” said Bear. “Your home is very fancy.” “Yes, it is,” said Mouse. They had their differences. Ah, well, thought Mouse. Not all neighbors are friends. She was too busy collecting things for her den to make friends anyway. Ah, well, thought Bear. Not all friends are neighbors. He had a good friend who lived on the other side of the forest. One day, Bear stopped by Mouse’s den. “I must visit my friend and help him tidy up his home,” he announced. “How long will you be gone?” Mouse asked. “One week,” Bear said. “Could you take care of my den while I’m away?” “What would you like me to do?” asked Mouse. “Whatever you think needs doing,” Bear said. “Very well,” Mouse agreed. “Thank you,” said Bear. “That’s very neighborly of you.” And off he went, lumbering down the road and thinking, Mouse will keep stray bugs and branches out of my den while I’m away. It will stay tidy, just the
way I like it. The next morning, Mouse hurried over to check on Bear’s den. It looked plain, as usual. It looked empty. It looked lonely. Something needed doing. Mouse picked flowers and set them inside. That’s better, she thought. The next day, Mouse checked on Bear’s den again. It still looked plain. It still looked empty. Even the flowers looked lonely. Something definitely needed doing. Mouse picked more flowers and set them inside. Much better, she thought. As the week went on, Mouse found more and more to do. She filled Bear’s den with flowers and trinkets. Perfect! she thought. Just the way I like it. At last, the week ended, and Bear came lumbering back up the road. “Welcome home, Bear,” said Mouse. “I took good care of your den. I checked on it every day, and I did whatever I thought needed doing. Do you like it?” “It’s very fancy,” said Bear. “Yes, it is,” said Mouse. “It used to be plain,” said Bear. “Yes, it was,” said Mouse. “Do you like it?” “It’s different,” said Bear. “Yes,” said Mouse. “It was empty. It was lonely. Now it’s full of flowers and trinkets. DO YOU LIKE IT?” “It’s beautiful,” said Bear. “I think so, too!” said Mouse. “There is a problem,” Bear went on. Mouse looked at the flowers and trinkets in Bear’s den. They were perfect. What could be the problem? And then she saw it: there was no room in Bear’s den for Bear. “Oh, dear,” she said. Together, Mouse and Bear carried everything out of his den and into hers. They stood back and admired their work. “Your home is fancier than ever,” Bear said. “Yes, it is,” Mouse agreed. “But your home is still plain.” Bear smiled and settled himself inside. “Would you like some honey?” he asked. “Thank you,” said Mouse. Suddenly, Bear’s den did not look plain at all. It did not look empty. It did not look lonely. It looked full of Bear! It looked friendly. Just the way they both liked it.